# General Contribution Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Dotanuki's projects â¤ï¸

We thrive with feedback and contributions from our community, whether they are bug reports, new feature requests, small fixes, or additional docs!

## Before getting started

- Consider giving a star to our repos and become one of our stargazers! ðŸŒŸ
- Consider reviewing our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/dotanuki-labs/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Issues

> [!NOTE]
> Before creating a new issue, check whether or not there is an existing related issue, either open or closed one

> [!WARNING]
> Please do not submit issues to report Security Vulnerabilities.
> Instead, check our [Security Guidelines](https://github.com/dotanuki-labs/.github/blob/main/SECURITY.md)

Issues are very valuable to any Dotanuki Labs project. Please use them to:

- Reporting bugs
- Highlight problems a project has
- Propose ideas, which are a valuable source of contributions others can make
- Ask questions about a project
- Etc

## Pull Requests

> [!NOTE]
> Before creating an Pull Request, check whether there is a similar PR in the works or not, or
> if there are any issues discussing what you trying to achieve

Thank you so much for your PRs ðŸ”¥

Pull requests are a great way to get your ideas into a Dotanuki Labs project.

When deciding if I merge in a pull request I look at the following things:

### Does it state intent

You should be clear which problem you're trying to solve with your contribution. Hence, consider
discussing your problem (and eventually details on your solution) in a issue first.

## General acceptance criteria for Pull Requests

- There are no spelling mistakes on descriptions and code comments
- It builds (all CI workflows/jobs are green)
- It is well sized and brings additional comments over code when they are needed
- It solves one problem and solves it well

You can refer to the `README` and `CONTRIBUTING` documents in a project to learn how to get started
with local development, and also to learn about specific guidelines per project.

> [!WARNING]
>
> **Please make it clear whether or not you've used LLM/AI tools to generate code or documentation**

LLMs are here to stay and we understand that, but still we consider code generated by LLMs as subpar quality compared with code we want to accept as contributions.

We acknowledge that some use cases favor super-charged code completions driven by tools like Github Copilot (e.g. generating test cases), and eventually we want to keep track of that at every PR.

## General guidelines for code contributions

Regarding code contributions of any type, please pay attention to the following guidelines (adapted from the [NetBSD project](https://www.netbsd.org/developers/commit-guidelines.html))

- Favor [atomic commits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_commit)
- Contribute with code you are familiar and comfortable with
- Do not commit code snippets got from another codebases
- **Do not commit untested code** and favor automated tests when possible
- Give proper credit when needed (e.g., StackOverflow reference)

In addition, we strongly recommend following an advice from
[Jesse Wilson](https://github.com/swankjesse),
who proposes that
[code changes should be either small or mechanical](https://publicobject.com/2023/01/08/small-or-mechanical/).

## License

Most of Dotanuki Labs projects are license with the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT),
without any additional terms.
